<html><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="content-type"></head><body class="c12"><h1 class="c2" id="h.gjdgxs"><span class="c10">Python Introduction</span></h1><h2 class="c2" id="h.30j0zll"><span class="c9">What is Python?</span></h2><p class="c7"><span class="c11 c4">Python is a popular programming language. It was created by Guido van Rossum, and released in 1991.</span></p><p class="c7"><span class="c4 c11">It is used for:</span></p><ul class="c8 lst-kix_list_5-0 start"><li class="c6"><span class="c4">web development (server-side),</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">software development,</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">mathematics,</span></li><li class="c5"><span class="c4">system scripting.</span></li></ul><h3 class="c2" id="h.1fob9te"><span class="c3">What can Python do?</span></h3><ul class="c8 lst-kix_list_2-0 start"><li class="c6"><span class="c4">Python can be used on a server to create web applications.</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">Python can be used alongside software to create workflows.</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">Python can connect to database systems. It can also read and modify files.</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">Python can be used to handle big data and perform complex mathematics.</span></li><li class="c5"><span class="c4">Python can be used for rapid prototyping, or for production-ready software development.</span></li></ul><h3 class="c2" id="h.3znysh7"><span class="c3">Why Python?</span></h3><ul class="c8 lst-kix_list_4-0 start"><li class="c6"><span class="c4">Python works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc).</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">Python has a simple syntax similar to the English language.</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">Python has syntax that allows developers to write programs with fewer lines than some other programming languages.</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">Python runs on an interpreter system, meaning that code can be executed as soon as it is written. This means that prototyping can be very quick.</span></li><li class="c5"><span class="c4">Python can be treated in a procedural way, an object-orientated way or a functional way.</span></li></ul><h3 class="c2" id="h.2et92p0"><span class="c3">Good to know</span></h3><ul class="c8 lst-kix_list_3-0 start"><li class="c6"><span class="c4">The most recent major version of Python is Python 3, which we shall be using in this tutorial. However, Python 2, although not being updated with anything other than security updates, is still quite popular.</span></li><li class="c5"><span class="c4">In this tutorial Python will be written in a text editor. It is possible to write Python in an Integrated Development Environment, such as Thonny, Pycharm, Netbeans or Eclipse which are particularly useful when managing larger collections of Python files.</span></li></ul><h3 class="c2" id="h.tyjcwt"><span class="c3">Python Syntax compared to other programming languages</span></h3><ul class="c8 lst-kix_list_1-0 start"><li class="c6"><span class="c4">Python was designed for readability, and has some similarities to the English language with influence from mathematics.</span></li><li class="c0"><span class="c4">Python uses new lines to complete a command, as opposed to other programming languages which often use semicolons or parentheses.</span></li><li class="c5"><span class="c4">Python relies on indentation, using whitespace, to define scope; such as the scope of loops, functions and classes. Other programming languages often use curly-brackets for this purpose.</span></li></ul><p class="c7 c13"><span class="c1"></span></p></body></html>